{"context": "Androgenetic alopecia is a condition that is quite common to women. In this, a chemical by the name dihydrotestosterone (DHT) causes thinning of hair and hair loss. DHT is made by the naturally occurring hormone called androgen that is found in both men and women. In some people, there is an excessive production of DHT, leading to more hair loss.Another interesting cause of the problem seems to be white blood cells that attack the hair follicles in a condition called alopecia areata. This is an autoimmune dysfunction that occurs in a small percentage of the population. When the hair follicles are attacked in this condition, they shrink in size and slow down the growth of new hair.\nhttp://restorelosthairebookreview.com/regrow-hair-protocol-review/\nHow to control hair loss As it can be seen from the above, losing hair could be caused by any number of reasons, or a combination of reasons. Since hormones play a predominant role among women, there are ways to eliminate these hormonal conditions by taking drugs to counter the effects.It is also important to eat a healthy diet, and lead an active life. Following a fitness program can largely reduce stress, which in turn can help maintain a healthy scalp.Other easy-to-remember steps that you can take to reduce damage to your hair is to handle your hair with care. This means try and avoid using harsh chemicals to straighten, perm or color it until you have regained your natural hair growth. Try to change your shampoo to something that is organic or homemade. This will be gentler on your hair and scalp.\nhttp://thehairlossprotocolreview.com/regrow-hair-protocol-review/\nAndrogenetic alopecia is a condition that is quite common to women. In this, a chemical by the name dihydrotestosterone (DHT) causes thinning of hair and hair loss. DHT is made by the naturally occurring hormone called androgen that is found in both men and women. In some people, there is an excessive production of DHT, leading to more hair loss.Another interesting cause of the problem seems to be white blood cells that attack the hair follicles in a condition called alopecia areata. This is an autoimmune dysfunction that occurs in a small percentage of the population. When the hair follicles are attacked in this condition, they shrink in size and slow down the growth of new hair.\n\nhttp://restorelosthairebookreview.com/regrow-hair-protocol-review/\n\nHow to control hair loss As it can be seen from the above, losing hair could be caused by any number of reasons, or a combination of reasons. Since hormones play a predominant role among women, there are ways to eliminate these hormonal conditions by taking drugs to counter the effects.It is also important to eat a healthy diet, and lead an active life. Following a fitness program can largely reduce stress, which in turn can help maintain a healthy scalp.Other easy-to-remember steps that you can take to reduce damage to your hair is to handle your hair with care. This means try and avoid using harsh chemicals to straighten, perm or color it until you have regained your natural hair growth. Try to change your shampoo to something that is organic or homemade. This will be gentler on your hair and scalp.\n\nhttp://thehairlossprotocolreview.com/regrow-hair-protocol-review/\n", "tags": ["Regrow", "Hair", "Protocol", "ReVIEW"]}