{"context": "The world saw how online searches on mobiles have taken over desktops and laptops. Moreover, being a part of this mobile revolution, we have seen how mobile apps have dominated browsers and became a prime platform for businesses to target potential audience. No wonder, why numerous companies seem to get a mobile application developed for their business. Today mobile apps have become an essential part of marketing strategy for various brands across the world. If you too want to leverage mobile apps for the best interest of your business, indeed you need a flawless mobile app. \nHowever, the irony is every single brand want to take their business to the mobile app, but no one knows the how to avoid pitfalls during mobile application development. Therefore, it has become necessary for you to know the essential of mobile application development to make every invested buck worthwhile. If you disregard its importance, then all your efforts would end up in a fiasco, and you would realize you have wasted your most valuable resource like time, money and energy. For better clarification, just take a look at this information.\nHaving a mobile app for your business that frequently slows down or crash can decline your brand value instantly in the market. A survey reveals some interesting fact that more than 61 percent of app users want their apps to start working as and when they touch while there are only 49 percent of them who prefer to get the response after inputs. Additionally, it also reveals that if an app constantly crashes or freezes, then more than fifty percent of users uninstall it right away without wasting a single minute. \nThus, we can say that performance of a mobile application hinges on the way it gets developed. \nWhether you own a business or a developer who develop mobile apps, let\u2019s see mobile application development mistakes that you should avoid. \n\nPicking Up a Wrong Platform\nIn the realm of smartphones, there are three big platforms for mobile apps namely Android, iOS, and Windows. If we talk about Android users, then they are huge as compared to other two platforms. However, if we see from the business point of view, then we will find that a lot of professionals and companies prefer iOS because the apps developed for this platform generate 85 percent more revenue than Android apps.  \nDespite the fact that iOS apps are extremely famous in the US but Android dominates if we compare both on the global scale concerning usability. \nWhile choosing a suitable platform you have to think, what kind of app you need for your business? Will you offer a paid/free or in-app purchase option? Who is your target audience, which device they use?\nYou can get crucial insights from Google Analytics, but only if you have already setup for your business. \nOnce you find answers to all these questions, you would be pretty clear about picking up a right platform. Otherwise, the development cost and maintenance cost will be increased drastically. \n\nLack of Adequate Testing\nTesting is pretty crucial when it comes to ensuring the smooth running of your mobile app. A great mobile application is the outcome of careful planning, development, and testing. It is a process to make your mobile app bug-free and a flawless app deliver high-quality user experience. Mobile app testing is a never ending process as frequent modifications, and updates will continue to happen as requirements evolve. \nA little carelessness in the testing of a developed mobile application leads you to incur the loss of time, money, and of course brand image. \nSo never consider testing, a wastage of time and do test your mobile app frequently to ensure its smooth running across the devices. \n\nCreating App without Any Business Strategy\nAlways be specific with your business needs. Before hiring a professional or instructing your development team to develop a mobile app for your business, it is important to analyze your requirements deeply. Doing so will help you determine whether you need a mobile app, or you should stick to your desktop version. For better clarification, you can take insights from your analytics.\nWithout any business strategy, getting an app developed will be worthless and pointless. \n\nNot Doing Proper Marketing of App\nThe app market is a big fish and due to the high competition it may be possible that audience remain unknown about your app, doesn\u2019t matter how well you get your mobile app developed. Therefore, never disregard marketing of your business app. Prepare a plan; promote your mobile app on the various platform so that it can get the maximum exposure. Further, you can hire a reliable digital marketing partner who will promote your app across the platforms to mark a strong online presence. \nThus, by being proactive right from the start, you can make your app easier to discover. \n\nExploding App with Too Many Features\nRemember one simple rule \u201cKeep it simple and short,\u201d but don\u2019t forget to add value to your business app so that your app users will have a strong reason to hang around. \nBy keeping your mobile application simple, you would be able to deliver a great user experience. Your app should be developed around your business goals but at the same time, it should be able to sort out the problems of customers also.\nOverloading apps with too many features not only increases the cost of overall development but also throws the need to check everything you incorporate in your app is working absolutely fine. Lacking at a single feature you included may decline your brand value because mobile app users are the inborn explorer of new features. In case, they found single feature inside the app that is not working properly; then they will hardly take one minute to uninstall it. \nSo, don\u2019t overload your app with too many features and make it simple and valuable.  \n\nFinal Note\nThe need to remain in the competition has compelled companies to think beyond conventional ways of marketing. Mobile apps are the part of modern day marketing but don\u2019t forget that aiming big doesn\u2019t take anything, but if it is not executed in a proper way, then it can make you lose everything. I hope the points mentioned above will help you to avoid mistakes for mobile application development.\nThe world saw how online searches on mobiles have taken over desktops and laptops. Moreover, being a part of this mobile revolution, we have seen how mobile apps have dominated browsers and became a prime platform for businesses to target potential audience. No wonder, why numerous companies seem to get a mobile application developed for their business. Today mobile apps have become an essential part of marketing strategy for various brands across the world. If you too want to leverage mobile apps for the best interest of your business, indeed you need a flawless mobile app. \n\nHowever, the irony is every single brand want to take their business to the mobile app, but no one knows the how to avoid pitfalls during mobile application development. Therefore, it has become necessary for you to know the essential of mobile application development to make every invested buck worthwhile. If you disregard its importance, then all your efforts would end up in a fiasco, and you would realize you have wasted your most valuable resource like time, money and energy. For better clarification, just take a look at this information.\n\t\nHaving a mobile app for your business that frequently slows down or crash can decline your brand value instantly in the market. A survey reveals some interesting fact that more than 61 percent of app users want their apps to start working as and when they touch while there are only 49 percent of them who prefer to get the response after inputs. Additionally, it also reveals that if an app constantly crashes or freezes, then more than fifty percent of users uninstall it right away without wasting a single minute. \n\nThus, we can say that performance of a mobile application hinges on the way it gets developed. \n\nWhether you own a business or a developer who [develop mobile apps](http://www.resultfirst.com/service/mobile-application-development/), let\u2019s see mobile application development mistakes that you should avoid. \n##Picking Up a Wrong Platform\nIn the realm of smartphones, there are three big platforms for mobile apps namely Android, iOS, and Windows. If we talk about Android users, then they are huge as compared to other two platforms. However, if we see from the business point of view, then we will find that a lot of professionals and companies prefer iOS because the apps developed for this platform generate 85 percent more revenue than Android apps.  \n\nDespite the fact that iOS apps are extremely famous in the US but Android dominates if we compare both on the global scale concerning usability. \n\nWhile choosing a suitable platform you have to think, what kind of app you need for your business? Will you offer a paid/free or in-app purchase option? Who is your target audience, which device they use?\n\nYou can get crucial insights from Google Analytics, but only if you have already setup for your business. \n\nOnce you find answers to all these questions, you would be pretty clear about picking up a right platform. Otherwise, the development cost and maintenance cost will be increased drastically. \n##Lack of Adequate Testing\nTesting is pretty crucial when it comes to ensuring the smooth running of your mobile app. A great mobile application is the outcome of careful planning, development, and testing. It is a process to make your mobile app bug-free and a flawless app deliver high-quality user experience. Mobile app testing is a never ending process as frequent modifications, and updates will continue to happen as requirements evolve. \n\nA little carelessness in the testing of a developed mobile application leads you to incur the loss of time, money, and of course brand image. \n\nSo never consider testing, a wastage of time and do test your mobile app frequently to ensure its smooth running across the devices. \n##Creating App without Any Business Strategy\nAlways be specific with your business needs. Before hiring a professional or instructing your development team to develop a mobile app for your business, it is important to analyze your requirements deeply. Doing so will help you determine whether you need a mobile app, or you should stick to your desktop version. For better clarification, you can take insights from your analytics.\n\nWithout any business strategy, getting an app developed will be worthless and pointless. \n##Not Doing Proper Marketing of App\nThe app market is a big fish and due to the high competition it may be possible that audience remain unknown about your app, doesn\u2019t matter how well you get your mobile app developed. Therefore, never disregard marketing of your business app. Prepare a plan; promote your mobile app on the various platform so that it can get the maximum exposure. Further, you can hire a reliable digital marketing partner who will promote your app across the platforms to [mark a strong online presence](http://www.resultfirst.com/service/seo/). \n\nThus, by being proactive right from the start, you can make your app easier to discover. \n##Exploding App with Too Many Features\nRemember one simple rule \u201cKeep it simple and short,\u201d but don\u2019t forget to add value to your business app so that your app users will have a strong reason to hang around. \n\nBy keeping your mobile application simple, you would be able to deliver a great user experience. Your app should be developed around your business goals but at the same time, it should be able to sort out the problems of customers also.\n\nOverloading apps with too many features not only increases the cost of overall development but also throws the need to check everything you incorporate in your app is working absolutely fine. Lacking at a single feature you included may decline your brand value because mobile app users are the inborn explorer of new features. In case, they found single feature inside the app that is not working properly; then they will hardly take one minute to uninstall it. \n\nSo, don\u2019t overload your app with too many features and make it simple and valuable.  \n###Final Note\nThe need to remain in the competition has compelled companies to think beyond conventional ways of marketing. Mobile apps are the part of modern day marketing but don\u2019t forget that aiming big doesn\u2019t take anything, but if it is not executed in a proper way, then it can make you lose everything. I hope the points mentioned above will help you to avoid mistakes for mobile application development.\n", "tags": ["development", "Mobile", "Application"]}